---
layout: post
title:  "My Git Notes"
tags: git 
mathjax: on
---

### Git tree

```console
# get the tree-like view of commits 
git log --graph --oneline --all

```


### Git branch

```console

# show all branchs and your current branch
git branch 

# delete branch
git branch -D ${branch_name}

```

### Git reset

```console

# reset to previous commit id, keep all local changes
git reset --soft ${commit_id}

# reset to previous commit id, will not keep local changes
git reset --hard ${commit_id}

```


### Git cherry-pick
git cherry-pick can be userful for undoing changes. For example, say a commmit is accidentally made to the wrong branch, you can switch to the correct branch and `cherry-pick` the commit to where it should belong.

Example:
Working on production, checkout, commit and push from local prod, not the `origin/prod`. when I create PR, there shows 2 files changes and 2 commits (but should only have one commit).

Solution:


```console

# step 1: get lastest 2 commit ids
git log -2

# step 2: checkout remote prod
git checkout origin prod

# step 3: checkout to a new branch
git checkout -b new_branch 

# step 4: cherry pick your commit by commit_id
git cherry-pick ${commit_id} 


```


### Git Merge/Rebase
**I'm working on a branch `dev`, then the others made some changes or hotfix in `main`, what is the best way to get those commits into `dev` branch.**

```console

git checkout dev
git rebase main

# to abort and get back to the state before
git rebase --abort

# resolve conflicts manually 
git rebase main
```
**however, sometimes `git merge` would be better**

```console

git checkout dev
git merge main

```

**So, git rebase v.s git merge**
`git merge` takes all the changes in one branch and merges them into another branch in one commit. let's say you have created a branch for the purpose of developing a single feature, when you want to bring those changes back to master, you probably want `merge`. `Merge` into main

`git rebase` says I want the point at which I branched to move to a new starting point. If you started doing some development and then another developer made an unrelated change. you probaby want to pull and then `rebase` to base your changes from the current version from the repo.


---
### Git Squashing
all commits are preserved in both cases ('new feature' -> 'typo' -> 'oops typo again' ), `commits can be combined into a single commit by squashing. 


**use case: combine commits**
1. rebase to previous commits 
```bash
git rebase -i HEAD~${num_commits}

```
2. Squash Commits - An editor will open with a list of commits. Each commits will be with a word `pick`, change `pick` to `squash` or `s`.
3. Save and Clost the editor 
4. Edit the commit msg.
5. Save and push changes 